# Mutale Nkonde Talk

#### Dalton Rothenberger



Mutale Nkonde brought up how impactful AI is especially with the black community. One pointed she discussed which we have also discussed in class before is AI such as facial recognition and the impact this has on black people. These facial recognition algorithms still struggle to recognize black faces. Technology is designed for everyone but technology impacts us all differently especially for the black community. Facial recognition is also being used disproportionately. For example, facial recognition is being implemented in black community neighbor hoods but not being implemented somewhere such as Central Park or a rich white neighborhood because these places have been deemed “safe” in comparison to the black neighborhood. This sounds similar to the other topic we had discussed in class which was Amazon giving facial recognition technology to ICE so that they could identify immigrants. It is depressing to see and hear that facial recognition is being used almost entirely in discriminatory ways. The worst part to think about is how the black community had no one to defend them. Not one person in power stopped and decided that what they are doing is racist and how even the people developing these technologies do not want these technologies deployed near their own homes. San Francisco banned facial recognition because the people of San Francisco/Silicon Valley are the ones developing this tech and they realize how impactful it is. They fought against having their own technology used against them which really is a powerful message that clearly something is wrong with this technology if the people making it do not want it. The talk was a deeper dive into the various discussions we have had about race and technology before. It is always good to be aware of how tech can be misused to better understand the implications of things I might develop in my own career.

